# Planning

## Initial Planning 
- Our group's plan for phase 3 was to build an essentially complete and polished MVP to demo to the TA. While in phase 2 our focus was to get separate parts of our project working standalone (i.e. different, functioning views), this phase was more focused on connecting our features so that they interact with each other, and extending the functionality of our features that had already been implemented. Furthermore, we wanted to implement a basic UI which followed slightly the [mockup design](https://projects.invisionapp.com/share/BJ4L7TQRZ#/screens/108894055) we submitted in phase 1. 
    - For example, extending existing features would be outlined by something like implementing a separate registration page for new users. In phase 2, all we had was a single page for login and registration. Our new registration page actively integrated with the original login screen and included database searching and forcing users to make medium-strong passwords.
- We went through our plan and made sure we were able to complete what we wanted in a realistic timeframe. As we had felt like our product for Phase 2 was already quite a ways along, it was easy to see where we needed to extend, implement, or design. 
- In the beginning stages of the phase, we created a [google doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IDenIi3H9F2fBz5OCNhfRDzfQVGabyz_B5ViawYi3aw/edit?usp=sharing) outlining what exactly we wanted to implement in terms of specific features. Everyone assigned features to themselves, created [issues](https://github.com/csc301-fall-2015/project-team8-L0101/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aclosed) on the repo, and used those to update accordingly. This way, we would be more organized in our implementation and hopefully would run into less bugs along the way. 

## Re-Planning and Adjustments
- Unfortunately, actually completing a backlog comes with challenges and eventual realizations that some things just can't be done in time. In the preparation for phase 3, we had wanted to tie in implementation of the camera API (to link pictures with our items) and the location API (local searching of places near you) as they're both integral parts of other apps that we described as our competitors in the project's initial stages.
- However, we realized through working through our implementation that those features were very advanced - maybe a bit too advanced to show in a demo that was supposed to be our MVP. We felt that it would be a better idea to fit this implementation in our final presentation, and to focus first and foremost on making a solid MVP to show the TA without having such a large task bog us down. 
- Going into the next phase, we also realized that many of the features we had wanted to implement at the start of the project are either complete or well on their way to being complete. This means that the next and final phase can be spent implementing the above features scrapped for phase 3 and features that would make our project go above and beyond what is expected of us. 

## Review and Retrospective
- Overall, our initial plan was largely successful. We were able to implement most of what we outlined in our initial document, and implemented our UI basics - mostly to the parts of our demo that would be used the most among our customers. Constant communication using Slack and multiple group coding sessions led us to bounce ideas, errors, and general progress off each other in order to best progress toward the MVP. 
- As described above, some features were deemed too excessive for this phase of the project and it was decided that they should be the last features implemented as they will take the most time. Furthermore, sometimes (but very rarely) was there a misstep in communication and some features were doubly-implmented. The upside of this was that on the one or two times it happened, we were able to combine the implementations, and usually one would have features that the other didn't but would be useful to have.
- Overall, as a group this phase went quite a bit better than the last phase. This can be attributed to some specific facts, such as an improved group dynamic - we increasingly felt more comfortable talking and working with each other, thereby enhancing communication - and an increase of time. Last phase, we developed the demo with a very short time limit due to so many commitments popping up. This phase, we were able to start earlier, which allowed us to further flesh out our plans and develop a more polished product to demo. 
